# Step-by-step guide to using a Hot Wallet, with common risks and mistakes:

## Choose a Standard Wallet App and Create a New Wallet.
    To begin Self-Custody of your Bitcoin, you need to choose a Standard Bitcoin Wallet. These are wallets which are open-
    source software, reputable, and battlefield tested for security. We recommend using Green Wallet. Install it from the Play
    Store or the App Store on your mobile, or download it from blockstream.com/green on your desktop. Follow the instructions 
    in the app to set up your wallet:   
    a) Open the App and click on "+ Add Wallet".
    b) Now, click on "+ New Wallet".
    c) Now, click on Bitcoin under Choose Your Network.
    d) Now, click on Singlesig under Choose Security Policy. Let the Recovery phrase length be default set to 12.
    e) Now, before you click on Next, please go through the three warnings under Back Up Recovery Phrase.
    f) Now, write down the 12 word mnemonic phrase in the correct sequence using pen and paper. This sequence of words is used
       to backup your wallet to recover in the future. Do not write/store them online and do not take its picture to protect 
       yourself from hackers. Click on Next.
    g) Now, select the correct word of your mnemonic from the options under Check your backup.
    h) Now, choose a name for your wallet under Wallet name and click on Next.
    i) Now, Set a PIN. The PIN protects you from an attacker in possession of your phone. Click on Next, and Verify Your PIN. 
    j) Your Wallet is now Set Up!. Click on Explore Your Wallet.
   
    The mnemonic - the sequence of 12 words - IS your wallet. Security of your Bitcoin relies ONLY on keeping the words safe.
    If your mobile/desktop gets lost, stolen, or damaged, your Bitcoin does not get lost and can be used by recovering your 
    wallet on a new device(mobile or desktop or cold wallet) using the mnemonic.

    If you lose your mobile/desktop/backup or it is stolen, you should immediately recover your wallet on a new device and
    move all your funds to a new wallet with a new mnemonic by clicking on "Restore a Wallet" when you install and open
    Green. This is to protect yourself from someone who might get access to the mnemonic and steals your money. 

    It might seem that someone might guess your sequence of 12 words to steal your Bitcoin but the power of randomness of 12 
    words is not appreciated enough. The best supercomputers in the world cannot guess your mnemonic and steal your Bitcoin 
    thanks to entropy in guessing words!

    Note: Some wallets provide an option for you to enter an additional passphrase which is the 13th/25th word used in 
    addition with your mnemonic when you want to recover your wallet. You can keep a passphrase if you feel securing only the
    mnemonic is insecure and you want an additional layer of security by keeping a secret passphrase, secured separately from
    the mnemonic. 

    You are now ready to receive Bitcoin!

## Buy/Receive Bitcoin.
    Buy Bitcoin from an exchange or receive from a sender by clicking on receive, and sending the generated Bitcoin address by
    your wallet to the exchange/sender. 

    Bitcoin addresses are like E-mail addresses, which can be publically shared to receive money from any sender. Although, it
    is a good practice to not reuse the same Bitcoin address to receive multiple payments to protect your privacy from
    anyone spying the Bitcoin blockchain.

    Transactions on the Bitcoin network are irreversible, so be careful and avoid mistakes while sharing or copying and
    pasting the correct address before sending them to the sender.

    If you want to, you can receive a small amount to begin with and attempt recovery on a separate device or a different
    wallet app on the same device like Bluewallet or Wasabi to make sure you have written the mnemonic correctly.
    a) Receive Bitcoin by sending the address generated by your wallet to the sender.
    b) Delete your wallet and install Green again/download a new wallet like BlueWallet/use a seperate mobile or desktop.
    c) Recover your wallet using the mnemonic words by clicking on "Restore a Wallet" in Green, or "Import Wallet" in
    BlueWallet.

    If the recovery is successful, you are ready to receive any amount of Bitcoin securely with recovery in future!

## Create Multiple Backups of Your Wallet(optional but recommended)
    It is important that you create multiple backups of your wallet/mnemonic to protect yourself from risks to your only 
    backup such as loss, theft, disasters etc. If you lose your mnemonic written down in Step 1, you lose the ability to 
    recover your wallet, and hence if your mobile phone gets lost/stolen/damaged, you lose your money. 
    
    a) Create another back up of your wallet by writing your mnemonic offline - either on paper or metal. 
    b) Keep the paper/metal in a physically secure location. This location should be safe from theft, damage by water, fire,
       natural disasters etc. Example - Your private locker, basement of your house, your safety deposit box in bank etc.
    c) Create as many backups as you think are necessary to create redundancy. Keep them in different geographically separate 
       locations. It is recommended to start with one backup at a time and increase the number of backups when you feel that 
       you have sufficiently secured your previous backups.
    d) Regularly check the security of your backup making sure the privacy of the location is not compromised, the backups are 
       not lost or stolen, not damaged by water, fire, or not destroyed in a natural disaster etc.
    e) You can also think of giving dividing your mnemonic in 2 pieces of six words each(or some other combination) and 
       giving them to two trustworthy people in your life you trust to not collude to steal your money.

    These backups will allow you to recover your wallet in cases your mobile phone and/or first back up is missing, lost,
    stolen, or damaged. Remember to move your funds to a new wallet/mnemonic in case any of your backups get compromised.

Self-custody of Bitcoin comes with the responsibility of keeping your mnemonic safe and managing your backup locations. 
Self-custody always comes with a unique set of potential risks and vulnerabilities for each individual depending on their life situation, place of residence, risk appetite, social ring of trust etc. 
Please take the required time and necessary precautions to ensure the security of your Bitcoin, ie, using Standard Wallets, keeping the mnemonic and backups safe, and regularly checking your backup locations. 

## Common risks and mistakes associated with securing Hot Wallets:
Some of the most common risks and mistakes that every user of a Bitcoin Hot Wallet should be aware of-
### Hacking
It is sometimes easy to forget that Hot Wallets are always insecure to attacks from hackers since the private keys to
sign your transactions, ie spend your money, are always on your mobile/desktop - devices which can connect to the internet.
Hot Wallets should only be used like your physical wallets keeping cash notes - securing money you can afford to lose.

### Privacy
    It is tempting to send the same address to multiple people to receive payments but please be aware that this puts you at
    the risk of leaking privacy to someone spying the blockchain who will be able to correlate that all of the received money
    to the address belongs to you when you spend any amount from the address in the future. Mitigating this risk is as easy as
    creating a new address and sharing it with the sender everytime you want to receive a payment.

### Phishing Websites
    A lot of malicious websites and apps might tell you to deposit Bitcoin or type your mnemonic online in return of services,
    yield, returns, tokens etc. Please remember you do not need to give your mnemonic to anybody to send them Bitcoin.
    The mnemonic is supposed to only be known by you, and kept safe and private.

### Carelessness
    It is possible that you yourself might discard your backup in an enthuasiastic cleaning session or tear it accidentally,
    and other such variety of threats to your paper backups. We all know how easy it is for humans to make silly mistakes,
    and in the case of losing your phone or your paper backups, you also lose money which is never a good feeling. That's
    why a lot of people use steel/metal plates to store their backup to prevent themselves from the fragility of paper
    and their own forgetfulness.

### Complex Backups
    A lot of people get lose in securing their money so perfectly that their backup mechanism becomes very complex to recover
    their wallet - a classic example of shooting yourself in the foot. Please ensure you take each security measure one step
    at a time and do not worry too much of making multiple backups all at once. Similary, techniques like keeping a secret
    passphrase, and encrypting your mnemonic should also be undertaken cautiously.

### Damage and Disasters
    Protecting 12 words - your mnemonic - does not sound very difficult, and it is not, but it comes with the requirement
    of ensuring the location where you keep your paper/metal backups is not prone to fire hazards, damage by water, vulnerable
    to earthquakes, floods, armed robbery etc. The decision of choosing the location to keep your backups should be well 
    thought out because you are not always going to be present at that location and you would need to consider the geography,
    public safety protocols, disaster management techniques etc.

### Theft
    Securing Bitcoin is akin to securing a physical item - if you lose it, there is no customer service to call and reverse 
    the loss. If your mnemonic gets stolen by an attacker, you cannot recover your money. It is essential that you take 
    measures to ensure your own physical safety as well as that of your backup locations. That is why it is a good practice
    to use Bitcoin privately. Click here to learn more about using Bitcoin privately.

### Death/Incapacitation
    In case you die or get incapacitated, you might want to make sure your heirs/family/loved ones have some way of accessing
    your Bitcoin. To do this, the simplest way is to create a separate wallet using a new mnemonic, give it to a trusted
    guardian and regularly keep moving some funds to it. You can also think of leaving a note with a unique and personal 
    message that only someone you know can understand who uses it to find the location to one of your backups.

